Docs connector level resource requirements (#54146)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/operator-guides/configuring-connector-resources.md

# Configuring Connector Resources

There are four different types of jobs: SYNC, CHECK, DISCOVER and SPEC. Although it is possible to configure resources for all four jobs, we focus on Sync jobs as it is the most frequently run job.

There are three different ways to configure connector resource requirements for a sync. The narrower in scope the requirement, the higher the precedence.

1. Instance-wide: applies to all containers in a sync. Lowest precedence. Overridden by all other configuration. Intended to be a default.
2. Connector-specific: applies to all containers of that connector type in a sync. Second-highest precedence. Overrides instance-wide configuration.

> 3. Connection-specific: applies to all containers of that connection in a sync. Highest precedence. Overrides all other configuration.

Reviewer: There are four in SME as of 1.5:

1. instance-wide
2. actor-definition-specific: IE: All Postgres sources
3. actor-specific: IE: This specific Postgres source I set up (this is the new one)
4. connection-specific

Reviewer: I am not sure how we externally communicate actor definition vs. actor, but I think in this docs update it makes sense to be more specific

## Best practices for allocating resources

Follow these best practices to minimize resource issues.

### Configuration Hierarchy

- Set instance-wide configurations as your baseline
- Use connector-specific configurations only when necessary

> - Apply connection-specific configurations for exceptional cases

Reviewer: I am surprised we recommend this for users as I believe it is only configurable via the API

Author: I talked this through with Matteo and I think there's general agreement that this was the logical place to start even if there's no appropriate UI component. The thinking is it makes the most sense to set broad constraints, then override them with increasingly specific changes.

Author: Actually Catherine's proposed change probably rectifies this anyway. I think we're good!

| Connector definition | Applies to all connectors of that type (for example, all Stripe sources). | Second-lowest  | Instance-wide                       | Connector-specific, connection-specific |
| Connector-specific   | Applies to one connector (for example, only _this_ Stripe source).          | Second-highest | Instance-wide, connector definition | Connection-specific                     |
| Connection-specific  | Applies to this connection only.                                          | Highest        | All others                          | Nothing                                 |

## Best Practices for Allocating Resources

Follow these best practices to minimize resource issues.

### Configuration Hierarchy

Start with the lowest-precedence configuration that's appropriate, then override that with more specific configurations as needed.

- Set instance-wide configurations if Airbyte's default is unsuitable for you
- Use connector definition configurations when possible
- Use connector-specific configurations only when necessary
- Apply connection-specific configurations for exceptional cases

> ### Monitoring and Optimization
> 
> - [Check logs](#debugging) to verify resource allocation effectiveness
> - Monitor for out-of-memory situations in the logs
> - Review resource usage patterns to identify opportunities to optimize
> 
> ### Scaling Up
> 
> - Start with default profiles for all connectors
> - Monitor job performance and resource usage
> - Upgrade resource profiles only for connectors that need it
> - Upgrade resource profiles for specific connections as a last resort
> 
> ### Troubleshooting
> 
> - Check logs for resource-related issues
> - Verify resource configurations through the UI or API
> - Review connection status and error messages
> - Address resource bottlenecks before scaling further

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend that you start with the default resource allocations set by Airbyte. These should be sufficient for most use cases.

If you have an issue that you suspect is due to insufficient resources, you should be able to confirm it via observability tools (e.g. Airbyte-provided [logs](#debugging)). If these indicate that there's an issue with CPU or memory, start by upgrading resource profiles only for connectors that need it. Upgrade resource profiles for specific connections as a last resort
```

Was this one of the AI-assisted sections? I found it pretty indirect, so took a shot at honing in on our concrete recommendations.

## Configuring Connector-Specific Requirements

> You can configure resource allocation through the "Connector resource allocation" dropdown in the Settings tab for each connector. You can also configure this with the API.

Reviewer: The UI and the configuration itself of actor-level resource requirements are only available in SME.  Worth noting because this page says OSS and SME at the top!

The available profiles depend on the connector type. Specific resource requirements and options vary by connector. As a general rule, resource allocations look something like this.

API Connectors:

- Default: 1 CPU, 2 GB
- Large: 2 CPU, 3 GB
- Memory Intensive: 2 CPU, 6 GB
- Maximum: 4 CPU, 8 GB

Database Connectors:

- Default: 2 CPU, 2 GB
- Large: 3 CPU, 3 GB
- Memory Intensive: 3 CPU, 6 GB
- Maximum: 4 CPU, 8 GB

### Advanced Configuration

> You can also use SQL to configure connector resources.

Author: Thank you!
